So to find the smallest sub array with given sum,
Let us write a function
Small length subarray sum by passing the array arr,
It's size n, and they given sum S and
it will return an integer which will be the length of
the smaller subarray with given sum. Next declare an iterating
variable i and window starting variable wstart and initialise
it to 0 and then declare a variable to store the
length and initialise it to the maximum integer value
so write len equal to int max
And whenever we find a sub array with minimal length
we can update this variable
Here int max is a constant which holds the maximum
value of variable type int.
To use int max we need to include limits.h
library and then to store the subsum value
declare a variable subsum and initialise it to 0.
Now we need to grow the window until the subsum
value is greater than or equal to s.
So write a for loop from i equal to zero, i less
than n and inside it add the values to subsum
that is subsum += array[i]
This loop will add all the array values to subsum
But once the subsum value is greater than or
equal to s, we need to find the window length
and update it.
Once it is done, we need to shrink the current
window and check whether we can achieve the result in
minimal length.
So write a while loop while subsum greater than or equal to S,
and inside it
We need to calculate the current window length
We can easily calculate the current window length by subtracting
wstart from i value
For example if i is in the second index and
wstart is in zero index the window size will be
2-0 which is 2. For array calculation
It's two. But in general the window length will be 3
So we need to add one to it
So to find current window length write int current window size
equal to i- wstart + 1
Once we find the current window length check whether it
is smaller than the previous length
If yes, update the length. So write if current window
size less than len, len equal to current window size
After that, we need to shrink the window and check
whether we can achieve the same result with minimal elements
So subtract the first element from the window.
That is subtract array[wstart] from subsum and move
the window starting point by one position to right.
So once subsum value greater than or equal to S
this while loop will find the current window
length and update it.
And also it will shrink the current window till the
subsum value is greater than and or equal to S
Similarly it will process all the remaining elements
Finally the variable len will hold the smallest sub array
length whose sum is greater than or equal to s
If there is no such subarray, the value of
len will always be int max.
So after the execution of for loop, if the value
of len is still int max, we need to return zero. Otherwise we can return the actual length.